<ICLE-ALEV-0001.8>
	There are many problems facing the Monarchy. Some of them are listed below:
The divisions in their family and the fight between prince and the princes of Wales and the possibility of the divorce.
The other problem is that people say (or think) that they do not do anything but they are rich and also they do not pay any taxes.
Another problem is that people think that Monarchy is abolishing in many countries and many countries are republic so Monarchy should be abolished in this country too.
There are also arguments against abolishing the Monarchy too. For example many people like the royal family or they are honest people not like the politisions that always lay.
I think the royal family and Monarchy is a a tradition in UK and anywhere in the world, UK is known by its royal family, so I do not think it should be abolished.
In the end I think if many people want the Monarchy to be ablished a general election should be called and then see if Monarchy should be abolished.

<ICLE-ALEV-0002.8>
	Over the past few years, our Monarchy has gone from one scandal to the next, from one disaster to another. The British public has been made to realise that the Royal Family run just like any normal family, only with a lot more money. Many people are now questioning the worth of even retaining the Monarchy.
	Not so long ago, people thought that our royals were care free and lived ideal lives. That way of thinking started to change after the disastrous marriage that brought Sarah Ferguson into the family. No sooner was she married to Prince Andrew, when things started to go wrong. Public scandal surrounded their relationship and their break-up represented the start of a downhill run for the Monarchy.
	Yet again only recently, with the announcement that Prince Charles and his wife Princess Dianna have been given permission by the Queen to divorce, we have been shown that no family is perfect. Their separation of course followed Charles' affair with Camilla Parker Bowles.
	So people say that we should not have a monarchy where they all cheat on one-another and lots of people certainly think that Prince Charles has no right to become king.
	Many people argue that we cannot afford a Monarchy, even though the Queen does now pay tax. This was highlighted by the fire at Windsor Castle, for which the tax payer had to foot the bill.
	I personally feel that we should retain the Monarchy. They are our countrys heritage and other countries envy us for our Monarchy. They give our country something to feel proud of, who has never dreamed of being a Royal?

<ICLE-ALEV-0003.8>
	"In Vitro fertilisation" is the fertilisation of an egg in the laboratory ie. in a testube. The egg is taken from the mother and placed in an environment which will optimise the chances of fertilisation by the sperm from the father. Once fertilisation has occured the fertilised egg is implanted back into the mothers womb and from there on the pregnancy will be normal. Normally more than 1 egg is taken from the mother so that the eggs can be stored and used later if the pregnancy is unsuccesful or so that more than one can be fertilised at the same time to increase the chance of a succesful pregnancy. This usually leads to multiple births ie. twins, triplets etc.
	There are people who are agains this, saying it is not natural and is it fair to the child having started life in a test tube, as they believe life starts from the moment of conception. There are ethics involved whereby who is given the treatment and who isn't?, at what age should the treatment not be given and is it justifiable to spend so much money on in vitro fertilisation for one person when the same amount of money could be used to saves hundereds of lives by vaccinating people against measles for example. The people who are for this can argue by saying that it is the right of every person to have their own child. Women who would not normally be able to have children can now do so with invitro fertilisation. Through no fault of her own she could have a blocked fallopian tube causing her to be unable to allow eggs down to the womb and it is only fair in helping her to have children.
	Technology has progressed quickly and in doing so ethics and practical guidelines have been left behind. I therefore think it is necessary to have certain regulations ie.
1. Fertility treatment should not be given to post-menopausal women. The menopause is the body's way of telling you that you are to old and your body is no long capable of bearing a baby. Last year there was a case of a post menopausal woman who by lying about her age was given in vitro fertilisation (IVF). I don't think this is fair or morally correct to the child since her mother would be claiming her pension when she was at primary school and her mother would probably die while the child was in her teens.... there should be a test that is given before (IVF) is carried out to check the mother is not past the menopause.
2. Eggs should not be taken from aborted foetuses. The foetuses will have been aborted for a reason for example: if it was the result of a rape or if it had congenital deformities. There should be a guideline or law stating that eggs should only be taken from the mother and not from dead, foetuses.

<ICLE-ALEV-0004.8>
	In vitro fertilisation is the fertilisation of the egg out side the mother in a labartory environment. The sperm of the egg of the two partners are removed and they are then fused together in the 'test tube' hence the term test tube baby.
	As the law stands it is possible for this treatment to be carried out in the U.K. and the first baby girls was born in 1978. The moral dilemma surrounding this is, is it an acceptable start to the babys life to begin in a test tube and not <  ? > intended, inside the mother? Will it damage the baby in any way? and could society become to dependant on this method of fertilisation?
	Fertility treatment for post-menopausal women. When women start menopause is it natures way of saying the body is not a suitable host to a new life? Not necessarily. Women now can have the treatment, successfully, and give birth to healthy children late on in life. Although some British doctors disapproved of such methods this treatment is easily found abroad. The desire to have children is so great mothers can pay thousands of pounds in the hope they may concieve. I find this to be a difficult issue to agree or oppose as only being young and having my life ahead it is quite easy to say that it is disgraceful women of late 50's having children and they had their chance and they let it go but if at fifty and maybe you put your career first all your life and now want a family should you not be given the chance and is it not how old you are but what kind of a mother you would be? I think that I would like to see a change in the law to allow women to have children if they feel able to cope but I feel if legalised it would be a decision taken to freely by women and not taking into consideration the consequences. At twelve years old the mother could be near seventy and is this really the age to bring up a teenager? The resentment, bullying and communication barrier between the child and mother could cause numerous problems. I think if legalised and offered to women it would need some kind of councilling and assessment as each case is individual. Maybe the women started menopause very early and always planned another child, what are both the woman and mans feelings as it is also the mans decision to, and maybe your body clock has stopped but you feel young enough to cope with another child?
	The moral dilemma of this decade has to be the sex selection issue. If partners should be allowed to choose the sex of their future child. Personally I would not like to see this available widespread as I think that if you were meant to have a boy then you would have a boy. The debate to have fertility treatment is a completly separate issue as the couple want a child and will have it the same be it a boy or girl and as mentioned before maybe the mother may have started menopause early which is not her fault at all, so why should be hold against her? but to choose the sex of the baby seems a little selfish. It is saying that you would only have a child if it was a girl and having a baby boy is going to ruin your life. There are always the exceptions though, maybe you are a mother with 4 boys and desperately want a girl but I feel if exceptions like this are taken into consideration and treatment allowed then where could you draw the line? eg. I've had one boy and now I want a baby girl.
	There are so many dilemmas surrounding this issue including should eggs be allowed to be taken from aborted foetuses or when trying fertility treatment and some eggs are frozen should they be allowed to be implanted in the mother years later. As in the case recently in the newspapers of the mother who had a child three years ago by fertility treatment and two years later used the same frozen embryos to create twins, which are identical to her first son meaning she had triplets 2 years apart.
	I think there has to be some kind of limit as the choice of having a baby at any age or its sex could be as easy as shopping from a catalogue. The building of hopes in the parents that their baby is going to be a boy/girl and have no hadicaps and if the baby is of the other sex imagine the disappointment of the parents not to mention the feeling of unwantedness felt by the child. It is a decision not to be taken lightly and I feel that the chance to have a child is every mothers right whether she is 20, 40 or 50 and no doctor should be able to tell her different but to choose the sex it taking what is acceptable and pushing it a little to far. The barriers of technology are widened every day as the decision to be allowed to choose the babys eye colour and hair colour by tampering with their genes is possible. I think the law should be made clear now before this altering of nature is allowed to go any further.

<ICLE-ALEV-0005.8>
	Science has moved on dramatically since the C19th. Many new things have been invented and many things medically have changed. People in our modern times are now able to have liver, heart and even lung transplants, there are many complications but many are succesful. People are able to have a whole new blood supply if theirs lacks the sufficient requirements or, a bone marrow transplant if the blood lacks white cells. All the above are carried out on living people, but nowadays biological operations can be carried out on humans which are not even born.
	Bodies can start their days in a test tubes. This is called 'in vitro fertilisation'. This is when an egg is removed from a woman placed in a test tube and then sperm is placed in to the test tube and the egg and sperm fuse together. The test tube is then incubated for a few weeks and when the fetous is formed, the baby is then inserted back in to the mother. The fetous is left to grow and develop naturally. This idea is extremely benificial to married couples who have been trying for a baby but have been unsuccesful are able to have children. An in vitro fertilisation allows the baby to grow inside, which allows the mother and baby to bond and it would feel apart of her, this would not happen if the couple adopted. What I do feel is ethically incorrect is when a woman who is post-menopausal decides she wants a baby. Nature has already taken its course to tell her she is too old to have any children so why should she have one implanted into her. It is not fair on the child because when it grows up and all its friends are playing with their 30-40 year old parents, its mother could be drawing her pension and I am sure she would not feel like playing with her child. Also the mother may die of old age before the child has led a full life and this would be unfair to the child. The child may also have to look after the mother in her old age.
	As the fetous begins its life in a test tube, and the sperm is selected, this means that the sex of the sperm could also be selected. The way the sex can be chosen is by using genetics. The women has 2 X chromosomes and the man has one X and a Y-chromosomes. The way in which the sex can be selected is that the egg is always X and the sperms nucleus can either contain an X or a Y chromosome. The X chromosome sperm is slightly heavier than the Y so they can be separated. If the mother wants a boy Y sperm is selected and if a girl X is selected. This may lead to an increase in one sex, and a decline in the other. As a result this would reduce the population as there would be less couples. Also what happens if most people the year you are born are men and you are a woman, this would be the unpopular sex.
	Science is progressing all the time, but is it for the best?

<ICLE-ALEV-0006.8>
	'In vitro fertilisation' is one of many treatments which is associated with medical ethics. IVF has been around for over a decade and still is the centre of difficulties and conflicts. IVF pushes all parties involved with to the limit, morally, legally and ethically.
	The first argument is that of the parents. These people can be like anyother healthy, successful etc. but infertile. Should they have the right to 'buy' themselves a baby? I think so. If they can afford the treatment and deal with the issues surrounding it, then they should go ahead. A child will make them happy and feel complete as a family and everyone has the right to feel that. Those with less money, however either have to not bother, take years saving up or adopt - but this is not the same as having your own biological baby.
	Problems which may arise for the parents are mainly the chances of the treatment being unsuccessful. This can be a major disappointment especially if the couple have spent all their savings on the treatment. They could even get into debt if they wanted to try again. There is the ethical issue if on finding out if the baby will be deformed or mentally ill in anyway whether to abort the foetus or not.
	Fertility treatment in post-menopausal women is one of the most controversial issues when discussing IVF. They have their own personal reasons for why they want a baby at that stage of life. Most people disagree with it from the start without even hearing the argument from the mother. This is because they probably see it as unnatural to continue (or <?> having children when the body is not biologically prepared for it. Personally, I think that this is only acceptable when the woman has married or wants to start a family with a younger partner. This is where the rights of the child comes in.
	If the parents are still relitavely young, then the child will in most cases have a reasonable quality of life. If a post menopausal woman has a child then in a very high majority of cases she will be at least 45-50 years of age and will be an O.A.P. by the time the child enters its teens - a very difficult time already for youngsters without having parents who are old enough to be your grandparents and the problems associated with that.
	The doctor. The skills of a doctor dealing with IVF are ones which will test his ability to make descions, keep the mutual trust between doctor + patient and keep society happy. The disadvantage of this is that the doctor can get the 'God syndrome'. He can select the sex, predict any defect the baby will have and basically create a 'super-race'. In extreme cases, doctors have been heard of to use their own sperm to fertilise the eggs during the treatment. Choosing the sex of a child should be the parents decision but at the end of the day it is the doctor who has the final say.
	Basically, the treatment itself is that the egg (or several eggs) are taken from the mother and sperm donated from the father. They are then put into a test tube for fertilization and the surplus eggs/sperm are frozen - possibly for later use, if the treatment does not work or the couple want to have another child.
	In conclusion, even though the presence of some of these dilemmas might stop some people considering IVF treatment, the fact is - if couples want to have a baby and can afford it then they are going to use any means possible and IVF is one of them.

<ICLE-ALEV-0007.8>
	In vitro fertilisation, is the fertilisation of one egg and a sperm outside the mother. An egg, is taken from the womans ovaries and sperm is produced by the male under controlled conditions. They will hopefully be fertilized and a embroyo will start to grow. The embroyo will then be placed in the womens womb where it is hoped that a normal pregnancy will take place.
	There are obviously many moral dilemmas for and against this issue. I shall look at firstly the advantages of in vitro fertilization treatment.
	The treatment if successful will make the male and female involved very happy. They have always wanted to have a child and now they have one. A dilemma, which may arise here, is have the parents the right to have a second child through IVF treatment.
	Unfortunatly, the disadvantages of IVF treatment largely outweigh the advantages. Huge sums of money are involved in this treatment, as it can only be done very rarely on the National Health Service. Normally, the couple have to come up with the money themselves and perhaps it can be even said that they are buying a child. Money which perhaps some couples don't have. The treatment may take many years to work with an enormous cost.
	The financial hardship and the constant disappointment may also put a strain on what used to be an ideal marriage.
The doctors who carry out this treatment are currently making a lot of money from it, is this right?

	In my opinion, there should be some regulations. Lets look at a) fertility treatment for post-menopausal women. Unless, there is a resonnable argument for example, early menopause taking place there should be some regulations. If a women goes for this treatment, and has a baby when she is 55 what kind of life will that child have? When, it reaches its early teens the mother will be nearly 70. I think that there should be an age limit on fertility treatment. But, if the couple are funding the venture privatly this would be hard to stop. It would be important though to look at, what type of quality of life would the child lead?
In some especially, earlier on in the days of treatment multiple births took place. A women would give birth to 7 babies not just one. How would a women of 55 cope with 7 young children?
	
	Next sex selection, is it really right for a couple to be allowed to chose the sex of the child? I don't agree with this. The introduction of sperm donors in recent years has made it possible for women to chose the colour of the babies eyes + hair. A "super" perfect baby will soon be introduced which in my opinion isn't morally correct. I don't think it is right, for the doctors to play 'god' during the treatment.

	I think that if the treatment isn't soon reulated, the problems mentioned above and probably even more new problems will cause great trauma in the future. I agree, that generally, IVF treatment is a good idea as it makes most sterile couples happy restrictions are going to have to be laid down.

<ICLE-ALEV-0008.8>
'In vitro fertilization' is the fertilization of an egg artificially in the mothers womb. In vitro ie. in a natural environment.
This gives couples who could not naturally have children the ability to have their own family without adopting.
a) Fertility treatment for post-menopausal women enables parents to start a family later in life. This allows the couple to develop their careers earlier in life, therefore, they can be more financially secure before they have children. Also, it allows women who have divorced to enter new relationships with the possibility of having (more) children which can sometimes strengthen relationships. However, if much older women have children, she is less likely to be able to care for them when they are older. It would be unfair to have a child at say 60 knowing that you may be suffering from ill health in the near future and expect the child to support you. Also, it may not be fair on the mother, as if the treatment was available she may feel obliged to have children for her partner. Having a child is stressful at any age but if the mother is older when the child very young she may not have the energy to get up four times every night etc.
	Therefore, although I agree with fertility treatment for post menopausal women I think that upper age limits should be applied. Also, I think the women should have a form of councelling before hand so that they are aware of how much more stressful it is to bring up children later in life.
b) Sex Selection.
	This form of genetic engineering allows the parents to choose their own child. Therefore, couples who only want boys could do so. However, if a couple could only love one gender of child should they have one? Although in principle the idea of choosing children is not a bad one, where would it stop? If this is acceptable then choosing blonde hair and blue eyes may also become acceptable. This could lead to a total change in the population. Also, if for any reason the treatment should go wrong and the wrong gender is conceived, the parents may find it hard to love the child. However, in China, for example, the one child law has meant that many baby girls have been killed for want of a boy. Therefore, if the parents could ensure that they have a boy, it would save many deaths, so in that case choosing the gender of a child before conception would be preferable.
	The child may feel more special if she/he was chosen by gender, unless the wrong gender is born, in which case the child may feel unloved.
	Therefore, I don't think that it is fair to choose the sex of a child in this country as mistakes could happen and these would not be fair on either the parents or the child. Although in a country such as China, such a facility would be beneficial as it would prevent a lot of deaths.

<ICLE-ALEV-0009.8>
	`In vitro is the term used when something is cultured in a container outside of its natural environment. Test tube babies are born in vitro as they are formed outside of their natural environment, the womb. When formed in the womb they are said to be 'in <?>.
b) In my opinion each couple has the right to have children as for most couples, whether heterosexual or homosexual, this is a natural desire. However if a couple decide that they wish to have children then a natural event is brought into play. If a couple were able to predecide the sex of their child then a whole number of issues would be raised. An inbalance of population would occur if determination of the sex of a pre born child was allowed. This would then lead to problems as if there were more of one sex than the other then there would not be a sufficient number of partners for the opposite sex in a heterosexual relationship. Equality for men an women may change if there was an inbalance in the population. As there are no advantages or disadvantages in having a male or female child people would begin to chose on prejudices and therefore sexual equality would again be affected.
	As a result I believe that people should not have the right to choose the sex of their child as it is unnatural and unnecessary and there are no advantages to be gained.
c) I would find taking eggs from aborted foetuses acceptable as long as permission was granted by the female who proceeded with the abortion. Regulation would have to be brought in so that no payment was given for the eggs. If this did not happen an increase in abortions may occur as women could use abortion as an income. Strict regulations on abortions would have to be maintained.
	As a foetus can be seen as an inanimate object I cannot see any objection to benefitting from it. Eggs taken from a foetus may be used to help couples unable to have children, or allow homosexual couples to have children.

<ICLE-ALEV-0010.8>
	The term 'in vitro fertilisation' refers to the scientific help given to a women who can not concieve a child under normal circumstances for any number of reasons. In particular, the phrase is applied to foetuses concieved outside of the female body which is then transferred to the womb. Whilst many feel that it is every persons right to have a child if they wish, many others feel that it is unnatural and therefore wrong to concieve a child in this manner and that there are other alternatives available, for example, adoption.
	In recent years there has been much heated discussion had over the right for post-menopausal women to have a child. One such case involved a woman in her sixties having to travel to an Italian clinic so that she could concieve a baby. Whilst it is understandable that this woman would want a child of her own, it seems hardly fair on her future offspring. Although the woman in question was healthy at the time of conception it is possible that her health may quickly deteriorate in only a short time and therefore the child would be left with an incapable mother, or in fact no mother at all. The health risks too the child whilst in the womb are numerous and as well as this, moral issues are raised. This is a highly unnatural occurrence which takes away part of the 'miricle' of child birth and makes it seem as though life can be manufactured. It is easy to understand why a post-menopausal woman would want a child to care for in retirement years especially if she or her partner had no child of their own but I personally feel that it should not be allowed as it does not only seem unethical but the practical disadvantages far outweigh any advantages.
	At this present time, sex selection before conception is unreliable with many experts thinking that it is not possible. However the see of a foetus may be discovered after the child has been concieved and therefore if it is the 'wrong' sex, the foetus may be aborted. Although this seems harsh and fairly selfish, it appears difficult to restrict this as, whilst the idea of killing an innocent child is highly unpleasant, in some cases abortion seems the only option and therefore restricting this actions is unfair. However, if a method of how to select the sex of a child before it is concieved is ever found then, this could be restricted or, the sex of a child that has been concieved should not be revealed to the parents expect in the cases where this is necessary. Occasionally it is beneficial to reveal the sex of the child as hereditary disorder often only effect one of the sexes and therefore abortion can lead to the disease being eradicated. Yet there could be many problems resulting from sex selection, for example in China. Despite recent social changes the fact remains that in this country the desire to have a boy child is greater than that to concieve a girl. If sex selection were to be allowed here then the population would become unbalanced and many difficulties would result.
	It is hard for a woman or man who have been told that they can not have children and therefore we can sympathise with their wish to concieve a child no matter what. However, it remains that in virtro fertilisation is not always the best option and is immoral and unnatural.

<ICLE-ALEV-0011.8>
	Genetics is one of the fastest growing fields of science in the world today, but people are growing more and more concerned by the potential implications of a branch of science with the power to change human nature. As more genes are `mapped' we find out more about the way our life is defined.
	Most people believe that the ability to erase genetic `flaws' is a good thing, but the key to the problem is knowing when to stop. I believe that in some areas there may be a case for genetic manipulation, for example the case of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, which has been shown to have genetic links. By genetic manipulation many hereditary degenerative diseases could be wiped out, but would people be satisfied with that?
	Another `disease' with proven genetic links is Manic Depression. Perhaps people could have a better standard of life if there was no manic depression, but to tamper here is to tamper with the human mind. The real question is where the line is drawn between a flawed personality and an individual personality. If we are to stop the human race including depressives, is it really such a big step to get rid of people with other awkward character traits from `grumps' through environmental activists to radical polititions. Obviously the traits of such people are not wholly genetic, but there must be some genetic influence in the way their minds work.
	Any scientist who works in genetics must seriously consider the implications of the work he does, as must any person who works at the forefront of any field. These days this is becoming increasingly important in science, as the general populace begins to believe in its infaliability. It can be argued that scientists only make discoveries, and it is others who misuse their work; Marie Curie could not have forseen the nuclear threat of the cold war as she worked with radioactive samples. However the scientist is also the first line of defence against the misuse of his discoveries. If a scientist can see a possible misuse of what he has found, he has a moral responsibility to act accordingly either in careful presentation when he publishes the results, in order to detract from the dangerous potential of his find, or, in extreme cases, through not even publishing his results at all.
	All of these considerations are continually growing more important as people look to science, almost as a new religion. As people find religion harder to stomach (often due to scientific discoveries - for example there is no heaven in the clouds, nor a hell under the ground) and see its feasibility shaken to its roots, they begin to seek a new truth where the problems with the old truth began. This `reliance on science' has reached sinister proportions, and already individuals have begun to manipulate it. An example of this Dr Dean Hamer's `Gay Gene Theory.'
	The Gay Gene Theory was `proved' over two years ago, when a little known american geneticist, Dean Hamer, found the gay gene in mice. Now, despite many peoples efforts, Dr Hamer's results have not been duplicated, and the scientific world has begun to accept that either Dr Hamer's results were reached by flawed methods, or by deliberate lies. Dr Hamer has never made any pretence of his socio-political agenda to reach a state of homosexual equality and acceptance, and the Gay Gene Theory took us a lot closer to his ideal world.
	Overall, I believe that the `major burden' of resposibility for scientific discoveries being misused may not lie with the scientists involved, by they are by no means totally blameless. I suggest the alternative opinion that scientists must share the burden of moral responsibility for the consequences of their work.

<ICLE-ALEV-0012.8>
	I must start by stating that I totally agree with the proposition that "Scientists must bear the major burden of moral responsibility for the consequences of their work". I will also discuss the potential benefits and harmful aspects of genetic manipulation or genetic engineering.
	Genetic manipulation and gene technology is a vast field of study and it is growing increasingly larger, which is why we need to monitor its progress in order to limit the size of any potential damage. Scientists in this area must bear the burden of moral responsibility, simply because the high technology levels allow them to have the ability to create potential world diasasters. At the momentic it is possible to insert genes of 1 organism into another, allowing for mutations of animals with altered genes. I predict that in the near future, this will cross into human biology, and that it will soon be able to alter physical characteristics of unborn babies, as well as even psychological alteration. The moral implications of this are huge, and as it is a scientific creation, then scientists must be held responsible for their actions. An example of irresponsible behavior in this area, in recent times was the introduction of cancer cells into normal everyday flu viruses, by a team of scientists in America. The military will no doubt be involved in gene technology, and scientists must be held responsible for the weapons they will no doubt create using genetic manipulation.
	Of course the technology does have beneficial effects. Its is now possible to grow human cartilage in the shape of an ear, which will not be rejected by the patients body. This will surely lead to the growth of organs, artificially. Genetic engineering was responsible for artificial insulin and the special factor VII for people with blood diseases. Genetic engineering has also been responsible for the creation of new types of plants (eg rice) which give much higher harvest yields, and this is especially useful in third world countries.
	Therefore in conclusion I must agree with the original statement because whilst gene scientists could solve many of the worlds problems, they could create just as many.

<ICLE-ALEV-0013.8>
	'A scientist is hungry for knowledge, good or bad, so that they can understand the world'. This is one view of a scientist, arguing that a scientist wants to have all knowledge collected and understood. In this argument the scientists would say that it is their job to learn more but it is up to society, through government <?> to decide what to do with this knowledge.
	This would almost certainly work in a country with total Democracy, no threats of war, unlimited budget for science and its regulators and no private companies funding research. Sadly no such country exists so it is down to the scientists themselves to examine the moral issues in their work.
	Genetic manipulations, like nuclear power, has the capacity for huge disaster and much destruction if used unwisely, but the ability to improve life for millions of people. The problem is that the technology and techniques used to produce insulin for diabetics could also be used to produce an infectious bacteria that spreads cancer, and like nuclear weapons it is very hard to keep the technology in the hands of only those responsable enough to use it safely.
	Many people argue that a biologist working in a genetic engineering lab should consider all the possible consequences of their work before they start, whilst they work and before they publish their results. Those people would argue that a scientist should not introduce small fragments of human DNA into a harmless bacteria, to produce hormones that some individuals are incapable of producing, because there is a slight risk of mutation or other chemicals might be produced or the technology could be used by the military or terorists to produce new weapons.Scientists in this area do think about the dangers but they also consider the many benefits of gene technology: As soon as this technology was first developed the scientific and medical community examined the vareous techniques, dangers and benefits, and drew up a detailed set of guidelines for labs working in this field. hese guidelines bar all but the safest experiments and laydown stringent safety procedures for labs. This goes to show how the scientists are taking responsibility for their <?> work, but are trying to continue because of all the benefits for mankind.
	One possible danger is if an unscrupulous multinational company set up labs is an underdeveloped country and forced its scientists to use techniques that are barred by the scientific community. As these scientists would be payed by the company they would have to do exactly as it wished even if they disagreed with the companies methods.
	In my opinion when geneticts are employed by private companies such as <?> or Welcome, the company shares the burden of responsibility with the scientists as they are following its instructions.
	The only safe way of regulating <I> gene technology is if there is an independent commission with many powers, to inspect and regulate all genetics labs and chose any not meeting strict guidelines.

<ICLE-ALEV-0014.8>
	The late twentieth century has seen an astonishing range of developments in the field of genetic manipulation; science has become so advanced that scientists are often accused of 'playing God' by their actions which affect, sometimes very directly, the lives of individual human beings. Such accusations are very serious, as to imply that scientists are taking the role of God implies that they must also be acting as the supreme moral arbiter and judge. Is it though genuinely fair that they should be put in this position?
	Notable advances have taken place in recent years in the field of fertility treatment; in recent years, it has become not uncommon to read newspaper stories of women in their fifties and even sixties who have been able, through the miracle of genetics, to give birth to children. This naturally gives rise to the question of whether it is morally correct for women who are highly likely to give birth to de<?> babies, or have terminated pregnancies, to be made pregnant. In addition, even if the pregnancy is successful, there is a high likelihood of these elderly women becoming ill or crippled or even dying during the rearing of their offspring: is it truly fair to bring children up in an environment such as this? So should scientists thus be condemned for allowing it to become possible for these women to have babies? Certainly there exists a demand for this work to be done, and as men can become parents until a late age, why shouldn't women be given the right as well? Those who have had babies are overjoyed at having been given the chance by science. Yet in many countries such fertility treatment has been outlawed by governments worried about the consequences for the health of the children and of the population in general; in other nations, a more tolerant attitude is adopted. It would seem then that ultimate responsibility to take moral decisions lies with the government; should we then condemn scientists for ever having invented the treatment? It is the job of scientists to make discoveries and developments, whether they will enhance the well being of mankind or not, and even if we can only condone them on intellectual grounds, we must condone them Science has brought so many certain benefits to society that it is therefore the job of society, not individual scientists, to decide on the legitimacy of a scientific discovery that is in some way morally dubious. Even the invention of weapons of mass destruction can be legitimised, as they helped to win the Allies the second world war and were therefore in some way beneficial.
	Genetic manipulation has also brought about the ability to prevent deformities in babies, which taken to its natural conclusion would bring about a population made up entirely of well-built, thoroughly healthy citizens. This has shocked those who regard it as morally wrong, and reminiscent of the policies of Adolf Hitler, for scientists to attempt to create a society of 'super humans'. Although it may be true that the elimination of defective genes can prevent much pain and suffering both for the carriers and those who look after them, it is also true that those who are handicapped can lead rewarding, fulfilling and useful lives; many 'flawed geniuses' have come from their ranks. Besides, who are scientists, or anyone else for that matter, to say what is 'normal' and what isn't? In my view it is the job of science to create the means with which we might eliminate deformities, or what many see as deformities, as evidently there are clear arguments for regarding this as beneficial; it is however the job of society to determine whether it is morally correct that these means should be employed.
	Genetic experimentation with animals leads the question into a wholy different area of ethics. Animal rights protesters are furious at the use of animals to test cures for cancers by first ensuring that the animals contract cancer, at the use of mice to grow human ears which may later be grafted on to a human, and at many other acts which they regard as a violation of lives which they believe human beings have a moral responsibility to defend, as animals are unable to do so for themselves. Yet there are without doubts many many benefits which human beings can accrue from the work which scientists do and have done with animals - we have already witnessed huge advances in the field of medical science thanks to genetic manipulation. The question of whether animals should be used for human benefit is not, however, a question which it is the responsibility of scientists to resolve. It is a question which can only be answered by members of society as a whole, and as long as there exists a majority in support of animal experimentation in return for human gain, it can be justified.
	Scientists cannot be made to bear the responsibility for the consequences of the work simply because they are in the unique position of being able to take decisions which affect the world as a whole. For society to abdicate responsibility for decision making on moral issues and <?force> it on to scientists would be shameful, in the light of all the benefits that science has brought for society. It is only when scientists begin to break the moral consensus within society on individual issues of genetics that we may begin to condemn them as their primary function must be to work for society's benefit.

<ICLE-ALEV-0015.8>
The recent developments in the field of genetic engineering have come largely as a result of discoveries made and techniques designed during this century, starting with the discovery of DNA and the mapping and understanding of it's structure.
The manipulation of genes is an increadibly important and dangerously powerful ability which can not be left simply to the scientists to look after. We are all now affected by the results of genetic engineering be it for medical reason or commercial ones. Tomatoes are designed and engineered to last longer, apples to grow bigger, crops to ripen late to allow for transport time, pigs used to grow insulin for human use... the list is enormous.
Along with the many advantages there are dangers. New biological weapons are being developed all over the world, eg the ability to transfer the genes which cause cancer into a simple disease such as the common cold, could, without much doubt, wipe out a significant percentage of the human race.
There need not be a war for something disastrous like this to occur, these genetically engineered microbes could be released accidentally whilst being investigated in an unsealed laboratory.
If we are going to accept the advantages which come with genetic engineering we have also to take responsibility for the disadvantages, the stakes are too high to leave this job to the scientists and they can't be expected to take the moral responsiblity for people who misuse the discoveries/inventions thereby causing disaster.

Governments should insure that money is invested not only in the research of genetic engineering, but also in insuring that the results of this research are kept safe.

<ICLE-ALEV-0016.8>
	The world of genetic engineering is a fiercely competitive and rapidly expanding area of science. The research in the last decade or so has made unbelievable progress at every turn, not all of it 'morally viable', so to speak. The theory that scientists should take responsibility for their work and its consequences is an interesting idea but there is one basic function of human psychology that makes this hypothesis invalid; when an individual scientist is working on research they are almost always working under sponsorship or directly working for a company. This means that any responsibility he/she may feel for his/her actions is shifted to their employers/sponsors. This effect has been studied for many years and several well-documented experiments show the effect clearly. It has been shown to have been present in world war 2; when German troops killed Jews they did not hold themselves responsible as they had been told to do it, they had been set on the course by someone else. Similarly, the people in command in many scientific situations easily commit themselves to decisions because there is no immediacy for them, i.e. they rarely see their decisions face-to-face. Using the analogy of the persecution of the Jews in ww2 again, it was said that Goebbels was physically sick when he actually visited the concentration camps and saw what happened but could still order the camps to carry out their work because he had no sense of immediacy of the situation when he was sat in his office in Berlin.
	This is all very interesting you may say, but these geneticists must feel some moral obligation. The actual work of genetic engineering is constantly coming up for discussion in today's media world and the work of many leading laboratories has been recognised as useful and moralistic. For example the production of insulin by genetic engineering is undoubtedly a laudable use of scientific knowledge, also the production of high yield crops for third world countries, another useful facet of genetic control. But looking at these, are they really as good as they sound? For example the high yield crops; they do indeed give many times the harvest of a normal variety yet several leach the soil, require very careful use of oil based fertilisers and countless other minor adjustments. Are these plants morally reprehensible because they require greater care and nurturing than their hardier cousins? The real question to ask is where to draw the line. One could wrangle endlessly about the pros & cons of genetically manipulated wheat varieties but the question to ask is do we judge on intention or on results? If a scientist releases a cure for the common cold but an unpredictable side effect causes unsightly rashes what position can we take? Were his intentions good or did he rush the patent through to release the drug + start making money? Basically it is an argument not easily solved. Several legal cases have already been fought, one of the more noticeable ones the sueing of a tobacco company by someone who believed he contracted lung cancer before government health warnings. Admittedly not a case against genetic engineering but, again a situation of non-malicious intentions being brought up short by the effects of their product.
	With wariness of genetic engineering growing on an almost exponential scale after such media attention as 'Jurassic Park' it is my belief that scientists should be morally responsible for the consequences of their work for their sake rather than anyone else. It is, as they say, a catch 22 situation; a product of genetic manipulation may have an unforseen effect and the well-meaning geneticist may find themselves being 'made an example of'. The watchword is still, and has always been, 'testing'. Lots and lots of careful testing.

<ICLE-ALEV-0017.8>
There are many beneficial aspects of genetic manipulation. These include: the erasion of identification of harmful hereditary genetic disorders and the development of hybrid high-yield crops. There can be no doubt that genetic manipulation and genetic engineering have had highly beneficial effects on many areas of society.
	However, many people dislike or are prejudiced against, genetic manipulation. Partly this is a 'Fear of the unknown'; something which tampers with the intrinsic components of plant and animal life is beyond comprehension for most people, and therefore provokes fear. What people have also become aware of, is the immense power which genetic manipulation can give to certain individuals. This has been very good to feed popular culture (the film 'Jurassic Park' being an obvious reference point). There is also however, the very real possibility that the power of genetic manipulation could become the possession of uncontrolled unregulated individuals who could use it for `evil' purposes. This then, is an argument against scientists bearing moral responsibility for their work.
	Anything in life can be misused. Whether it be a kitchen-knife used to stab someone, a car used to run someone over, or something as harmeless as a pillow used to suffocate. Everything in life, if misused, can have harmful effects and genetic engineering and genetic manipulation are no exception. Though the possible effects of genetic manipulation may be far larger than a kitchen-knife or car, this is purely a subjective view by present-day standards. Certainly we would not hold the makers of a car or kitchen-knife responsible for their misuse, and there is no reason why scientists should bear the major burden or responsibility if genetic manipulation is put to misuse.
	The fundamental flaw in saying scientists must bear the major burden or moral responsibility for their work, is that if this had been applied universally for centuries, scientific research would never have taken place, and mankind would be without electricity, radios, quite simply, anything above the mud hut' existence. Scientific research is not a corrupt, but an essential and natural part of the human condition for bettering itself. The other fundamental flaw is assuming that individual scientists have responsibility, Science is a process of discovery rather than creation, ie. no-one created genetic manipulation, the power of it was there to be discovered. If one scientist does not make a discovery then another one will. It is unfair to hold responsible the scientist on the fore front of human knowledge, who discovers something when another scientist in another part of the world may make the discovery independently afterwards.
	The only argument for making scientists responsible for their work, is that quite often, and particularly in the case of genetic manipulation, it would need a scientist to misuse knowledge, and therefore they should be responsible. While genetic manipulation is relatively new, it takes a scientist to carry it out, and therefore an individual scientist could be held responsible. But, once genetic manipulation becomes common-place in the future, and it is not only the domain of scientists, the originals scientist who discovered genetic manipulation cannot be held responsible for other's misuse of it.

<ICLE-ALEV-0018.8>
What is a scientists job? Is it the blind persuit of knowledge and the discovery of the unknown, or is it to inplement and use the ideas and discoverys of his own, or of others. In my opinion the answer to this question is the former, a scientist uncovers what is unknown. The latter lies more in the relms of business.
	I would consider it difficult for a scientist to shoulder the responsibility for his or her work, if his discoveries were implemented by others, for example, could Einstin, one of the greatest scientests of the 20th century, be held responsible for the development of the atom bomb, or more reacently, the catastrophies at three mile island or at chenobyl. Einsteins work layed down the theoretical basis for nuclear weapons, and the implementation of the nuclear weapons program provided the catalyst for the development of nuclear electricity generation. can we blame Einstein for this.
	This brings out several points: in a non money motivated world it is highly likely that if one scientist forsees dangers of his discoveries, he will discontinue it, he cannot however prevent others continuing his work, and he cannot ensure that the disoveries will not be made by others. In the real money motivated world, these are two pressures pushing him to continue his work, money being the most important: if he sees a potential monetary bonus, he is likely to contue his work. The other pressure is fame and the delight in being <?>. There are thousands of scientists who have achieved imortality through their work. All of this argument depends on the scientist seeing the potential dangers on his work. However, very often the scientist is blind to all the effects that his work may have. They often have an aim, a potential use for his work: it is likely that other implementations of his work are likely, and for the scientist difficult to see.
	Also, how can a scientist take moral responsibility for a discovery made by pure luck. take this extreem example: a chemical researcher deliberately, without knowledge of its effects, mixes chemicals which result in the production of an unknown but deadly <?> gas which kills the entire staff of his research department. As the scientist is not at the fore front of his sience, the death of his collegues is not his fault. He would not be responsible, but it is highly likely that he would fral guilty. This example is a little extreem but it illustrates the point that much scientific research can take on unknown and uncontrollable directions.
	The history of science is littered with examples of discoveries made with good intent but which have been misused. Take for example Kalashnikov, the irentor of the Kalashnikov machine gun. He was simply asked to design a machine gun for the czechoslovakean government: is he to shoulder the responsibility of the deaths caused by Kalashnikov rifles. How was he to know that the government in chezoslovakia were going to sell his rifles to militant and rebel forces around the world. He was just asked to des<?> the gun. If he had not done it the same militant groups would be shooting each other with different weapons.
	Genetic engineering however throws up its own moral problems. Genetic engineering has a great potential for good, for example in the treatment of genetic disorders, the production of new medicines improving crop yeilds, the list is endless. Genetic engineering has however an immense power for misuse, and for harm. Recently, there have been 2 cases of the mis managment of genetically altered organisms. The most starteling of these was the discovery that a reserch scientist had been using an influenza virus to insert cancer causing DNA into other cells. If his research had proven fruitful and produced, say, an anticancer drug all well and good. What would happen if the cancer containing influenza escaped, the scientist would have to shoulder the moral responsibility for this by doing something as inherently silly as inpregnating a infectious virus with a cancer causing drug.
	However, taking the other extreem, a scientist who pioneared the work on DNAtechnology could not be held moraly responsible for any biotechnology or eugenics programs based on his or her work.
	In conclusion, in general, it is not the original scientist, or discoverer who should be held responsible morally for his discoveries, it is the people who implement his discoveries either badly on with mal intent who should be held responsible. Of course every scientist should be a good judge of the potential misuse or dangers of his work, and <?> he is <?> in continuing it. He should be held responsible morally if neglegent.

<ICLE-ALEV-0019.8>
Genetic manipulation has been going on for many centuries in the form of selective breeding, both of crops and animals. This technique has been of great benefit to the human race, enabling the production of more food, better food and new and interesting varieties of food. Of course, it is not just food that has benefited from selective breeding - the development of different natural fibres such as wool and cotton has been aided by it.
	It is only in very recent times that genetic manipulation has been seen to have bad as well as good sides. This is because we are now at the stage where scientists can alter an organism by changing its genes in some way. I do not believe that the scientists who originally began research into the nature of genetics had any idea that it would one day be put to bad (or good) use - they simply wanted to find out what it was all about, and hence cannot be blamed for any later events.
	Today, much research is being carried out on human genes to find out how they work, and whether they can be altered to prevent diseases. The scientists who work on this cannot be blamed if someone else uses their technique for less philanthropic ends - for example, in biological warfare, or to elimante a 'gay' or 'criminal' gene which may be present in human embryos.
	Where scientists can be blamed, however, is in the case of genetically engineered tomatoes. These are now available in a supermarket near you, with their genes altered to increase their redness, juiciness or resistance to disease. These tomatoes are probably perfectly safe, but if they, or some other genically engineered food, proves to cause a terrible disease, than that is the fault of the scientist who developed them, because they did not test them adequately to make sure they were safe. Similarly, if genetically engineered vaccines or medecines prove to have harmful side-effects, that is because they were not adequately tested before being released into the market, and the scientists are to blame.

<ICLE-ALEV-0020.8>
	Genetic Manipulation is the medicine of the future. Eventually it will be possible to eliminate genetically in herited diseases such as haemophillia and cistic fibrosis. This will be done by mapping the entire human genome. This will enable scientists to know precisely what each gene does. With this information certain genes can be searched for in the foetus and if detected the genes can be replaced with normal genes instead of the diseased ones.
	Genetic Engineering is used today as a sa<?> of substances, deficient in some humans. An example of this is insulin production. The human gene for insulin production was inserted into plasmids for circular loops of DNA found in Bacteria) along with an antibiotic resistance gene which killed of other bacteria leaving behind the bacterea containing the insulin gene. This bacteria was then left to reproduce, producing insulin throughout its life time. This insulin is then extracted and given to diabetics. This process is preferable to grinding down cow's livers. Processes such as this are invaluable to the treatment of certain diseases and conditions as they allow people infected to lead relatively normal healthy lives.
	Genetic Manipulation has been widely used in food production. Selective Breeding is a very simple example. Cows have been bred for milk and for their meat by simply breeding cows who produce lots of milk due to a genetic defect together eventually after many generations cows will be produced yielding much more milk than their offspring would need.
	Crops have been engineered to increase yields and resistance to draught, pests and disease.
	In the future it will be possible to alter the physical and mental abilities of humans. This is immoral as superhumans would be created for specific jobs for example huge men with lots of muscle small heads and organs tucked away to produce fighting machines for war or for boxing.
	Scientists will undoubtedly be able to do this in the future. This means that controls will have to be imposed to prevent this occuring leaving genetic engineering and genetic manipulation for allowing disadvantaged people become normal. This should not include mental ability as this would also be immoral. Genetic manipulation should not be used to change normal humans into superhumans.
	It must be scientists to bear the burden as these are the people who have the knowledge to create the superhumans. If it was up to governments then super soldiers would be created. Scientists must continue to strive to understand and improve not destroy.

<ICLE-ALEV-0021.8>
	Scientists around the world are investigating genetic manipulation for a wide variety of beneficial causes. Genetic Engineering is however a very raw issue and there is a lot of resistance to this work and certainly the suggestions of using it on humans. The trouble is that although a scientist may think he knows a lot about a particular area of study, and indeed he may, there is still so much that we do not know about about areas of study like genetics that there is a great fear of the unexpected. And indeed this fear is justified. When we consider the horrific effects of a nuclear holocaust I am sure there are many who wish it had never been discovered. But are we right to blame the scientists who first started the research and who had no ideas for it to be used as a weapon.
	We can argue that surely the scientist must have the greatest realisation of the uses of the discovery good or bad since he is the expert on the subject. But are we right to blame him? Let us consider that he has discovered a cure for cancer as a result of genetic engineering. It is against human nature to stop at this stage and ask, should I introduce what could be the greatest medical discovery of our lifetime when I am not 100% sure of the consequences. Can we expert a scientist to bear this additional burden for the whole world? In truth no, it is unreasonable.
	Genetic engineering is developing rapidly and already has been used extensively in plants and bacteria notably for the production of resistant strains of plants and in the production of human insulin. The natural step forward now is to apply this knowledge to treat common genetic disorders like Down's Syndrome. There is a lot of resistance to this and fears that we may manufacture mutants or that somebody may produce an army of superhuman clones. Some of these may seem a little far fetched but it is conceivable that in a 100 years time we may be able to decide the characteristics of our child, whether he is a great piano player or sportsman. It does not seem morally right to be able to make these decisions and certainly to anyone religious would be seen to be interfering in the ways of god and something to be avoided at all costs.
	A great scientist cannot see into the future. He cannot gage the moral repurcusions of his discovery nor the long term effect it is going to have on the world. If he is doing research for what he considers to be a good cause who are we to criticise him when we know far less about it. Provided a scientists work has been permitted and is public I feel it is unjust to hold him responsible for what the wold will make of his work.

To avoid continually writing he/she, his/her the scientist in this essay has been referred to as he. I hope no offence is taken from this.

<ICLE-ALEV-0022.8>
	Genetic manipulation has been with us as long as we have been on the earth.
	Prehistoric man selected plants and animals which he could use and fed them, this allowed these plants/animals to survive and reproduce. This selection process is a form of genetic manipulation, modern day example of long term artificial selection of cows, dogs and crops such as wheat.
	The beneficial effects are obvious, yields of crops have increased as the plants/animals we selected, although the process is a relatively slow one.
	However, modern technology has enabled the genetic scientist to clone & replicate genes through the processes of DNA replication where a gene is located isolated and inserted into <?> a bacterial plage eg e-coli.
	Throughout the world at the moment scientists working on the Human Genome project are involved in the collosal task of mapping human DNA a task that <?> millions of genes on each chomosome.
	This information will have enormous implications many of them beneficial; there is the potential to use this information to find the cure for disease eg the gene that codes for resistance to cancer, AIDS could be used to find drugs to supres or cure these diseases.
	Already this knowledge has enabled scientists to help those suffering from M.S. (multiple sclerosis) for example, who normally have difficulty breathing due to a thick, sticky mucus in their lungs. But this <?> is dissipated when using a specially developed inhaler, developed using gene technology.
	Genetic manipulation has also been used to in crease yields of crops this saving lives in third world countries and reducing costs of raw food products.
	But this information can be used for the wrong purposes as such information has been used in the past, we need no reminding about the events leading up to the dropping of the atomic bomb during World War II.
	Nevertheless I do not believe that we can blame the scientists who developed the atomic theory, many scientists are working in the dark, making new experiments thus is the nature of science and it would be wrong in my opinion to inhibit this as we would not be able to enjoy the benefits that science can provide.

<ICLE-ALEV-0023.8>
	Genetic manipulation is an area which has caused a great deal of controversy within the scientic field with a number of advantages and disadvantages.
	One of the main advantages is the ability to tailor other organisms genetic makeup towards man's needs. The possibilities are endless, a crop could be designed that would grow in the dry, hot conditions of many third world countries, relieving them of their worries of starvation. Cattle could be bred which are more efficient at converting plant energy to body mass or even diseased could be killed off by altering people's resistance to them. Of course to some extent genetic manipulation already exists. Racehorses are bred from certain combinations of parents and gardeners cross breed plants to suit their individual needs.
	However, their is much opposition to the process of genetic mutation. The advantages seem very favourable and I'm sure that a scientist would take much credit for these. But would he accept the blame if he caused one of the many disadvantages of genetic manipulation?
	There are many possibilities for the misuse of this process. One is a question of ethics and morals. Is it right to try and change motive? Is it the right of one man to play God?
	It is also possible that we would not be able to control the new organisms that would be created by genetic engineering. A new plant which has an increased growthrate may seem like an answer to all our problems but what would we do if suddenly it upset the ecosystem, draining the soil of its nutrients and not allowing other plants to grow? In theory a scientist should take responsibility for this but in an area such as genetic manipulation of which we do not know a great deal, it my not be possible to find a solution.
	Another problem would be the process of testing. We are already near the stage where it is possible to test people's genetic make up to find the possibility of their developing certain illness. Soon it may be possible for firms to only employ people with a certain expected lifespan or for insurance companies to refuse to insure certain individuals on the basis of a genetic test.
	Although the threat of the Cold War has diminished, the technology made available from studies into genetic warfare could be dangerous in the wrong hands - particularly in the area of germ warfare.
	Although the scientists can take credit for the developments and improvements in the quality of life which their research brings, there are so many disadvantages that they would be forced to take responsibility for the misuse of this new technology.

<ICLE-ALEV-0024.8>
	The area of genetics has expanded rapidly in the last few years and has raised many moral questions.
	Modern genetics has improved healthcare by finding bacteria and virus responsible for certain illnesses meaning we can do something about them.
	Our knowledge of <?> genes is improving all the time meaning that we can spot genetic defects, perhaps early in the stages of development of an embryo and a decision could be made about wether to keep the child or not. Further genetic findings lead to the possibilities of being able to choose the sex of your child. This could be harnessed especially in the cattle and dairy industry where a farmer needs specifically male or female cattle and so waste could be reduced.
	There are also future possibilities of being able to decide on specific features for offspring such as hair colour or musical talent. This has in some ways been carried out for centuries by cross-breeding to obtain desired features. Carrying it out genetically would give more control.
	Genetic manipulation of viruses could mean that they could be used to carry usefull genetic information round the body and pregnate it into other cells.
	Many moral problems are raised with such advances, do we have the right to play God? Should we be able to choose features of our children? More importantly then is the question of 'Is it right to deprive a child of life because of genetic defects' which is likely to raise the most argument.
	Along with the moral problems there are also physical dangers with 'tampering' with genetics. We are using bacteria and viruses to find vaccinations and cures, but there is a possibility that 'super' viruses or bacteria could be produced which our bodies could not defend against and could wipe out entire populations. There is the chance that this is done purposefully ie bioligical warfare in which the effects could be catastrophic.
	The moral argument is difficult as who at the end of the day has the right to make a decision? What about medical uses already in practice such as the production of insulin for diabetics which has made possible by genetic advancements, very few people would argue that there is a moral problem with that, so where can the line be drawn.
	It is an arguement which will re-appear and become more fierce as each new genetic step toward is discovered.

<ICLE-ALEV-0025.8>
	Genetics has come a long, long way over the last few years. Scientists can now manipulate genes so successfully that they can literally create almost anything they want to.
	There are, of course, both good and bad sides to this. Starting with the good aspects, however, since this is the fundamental usage of genetic engineering.
	The story that hit the scientific press about two years ago was about the "Stay-ripe" tomato. It was an ordinary tomato which had genes from a wheat variety added to it creating a tomato that, once ripe, stayed red for weeks. This is a major advantage to supermarket chains who often import their fruit from French suppliers. The problem with this is that it often goes bad in transport, and so it substandard when it arrived. The new tomato will not do this, so they get more tomatoes per cargo than otherwise they would have done.
	There have also been stories about barley and other cash crops being treated, so that disease and pest resistance is inbedded in the genes. Some can even produce pesticides themselves, a characteristic aquired from another plant. These crops are ideal for third-world countries where their native crop usually is found, but is being destroyed by a pest which is out of control. They do not have the capital for large scale pesticide projects, so these plants are ideal. They could eben ve engineered to produce larger quantities.
	However, genetic manipulation can also be used to recreate dead organisms. Due to government restrictions, the creation or recreation of animal life is illegal, but it has been done with a type of clover, usually found in the south of France, but seemed to disappear completely.
	People who think genetic engineering is going to recreate dinosaurs, or create strange creatures are living in a dream world controlled by paranoia. This is all science-fiction, not at all fact. We are decader away from understanding how to do this, and even then, there is only a tiny chance of it working. So, the harmful aspects of genetic manipulation are very few in number, and most people need not concern themselves with worrying about it.
	The only forseeable effect is releasing something which has an effect which is unknown to those who release it. For example, it might kill off other plantlife, or grow out of control. In this case, however, the statement about scientists bearing the moral burden would certainly apply. However, very few scientists would allow their "creation" to be released without all the tests which are <?incurred?>.
	The chance of a genetically altered organism getting released is very small indeed, due to many safety checks which must be carried out.
	All things considered, I believe that genetic manipulation will be a benefit to modern society and to future societies to come.

<ICLE-ALEV-0026.8>
	The discovery of Genetic Manipulation is a great step forward in science but it also caries great moral burden's.
	Or the beneficial side genetic is used to help maintain and give a better lives to billions of people each day. This is because due genetic engineering new species of hybrid plants have been developed, these produce larger harvests, can grow in nutrient deprived regions or survive or small amounts of water. this means more food avalible which pushes the price of food down and many people one happy as the spend their money else where.
	Genetics is used in another way linked with flowering plants. The flowers themselves are manipulated for varying colours, which couldn't be done before such as a "black" rose.
	Animals too have been manupliated for thousands of years breeding for certain aspects, such as good milk yeilds in cattle, feirceness in dogs or tailless cats.
	Manipulation is everywhere we look even in what we drink, alcohol. This is produced as a waste product by yeast, but it eventually kills it self by the product, but yeast has been <?bread?> for higher concentrations of alcohol more & more.
	But the most contreversall aspect of genetics, is manipulation of humans. Is it going to rid the world of genetic diease which would be good thing or bad.
Many people argue that it is wrong & we are playing God. There may be no indivialidity <?> people select the aspects they wan't their children to have, so people don't have faults of inperfections everyone is all the same in looks & idea's.
	This what most people are scared of and that is why they say it is playing god, & god wanted use all to be different.
	I belive that if god didn't want use to maniuplate genes he would not have given use the brains we have developed, which give use the capapilities of it.
	I do belive eradicating diese's is good idea but not less of indivuality.
	Genetic Warfare is another bad point. Super humans, breid for strength, intution, toughness & <?>. I belive we have being doing this for years by selective training of our soldiers & muscle tonning.
	Genetics can be a wonderful tool for good causes, but it could be used against the good & for self glory which it shouldn't.

<ICLE-ALEV-0027.8>
	Should scientists bear the moral responsibility for thier work? In general scientist don't actually know what they have discovered. It tends to follow that they stuble across something while looking in another field and only with further research can they understand what they have found. On one hand a scientist may discover how to make a plant grow better by altering it genes or if he changes his experiment only slightly a completely new killer strain of this plant could be found. However the scientist would not have known which one he would achieve before or even during the experiment. In general it is politicians and leaders who misuse the power bistowed on them and destroy the scientists good work. Biological warfare is not the scientists fault. He did not use it to kill. In fact it was probably an experiment with herbicides which went wrong. The picture of the mad scientist <?> over <?bumbling?> pots is just fiction. Scientists in general don't wish to take over the world. They are generally manipulated by politicians who do. However scientists should have an ethical code that they should stick to. For instant experimentation upon live animals especially humans should not be undertaken. An example of this was the Nazi's in World War 2 experimenting on the Jews by trying to genetically alter them. This of course ended in failure. There have been other cases of such attrosities committed by scientists since then as well. These people have always been shunded by the scientific comunity.
	However on the otherside most scientists don't get the credit they disserve for their inventions. For instant many millions will be made by the genetic engineering of crops and yet the scientists would never get any money and very little credit for it. Only the most careful scientists who get the copy right before the idea is released will get any credit, but these people are are shunned as nut cases who are two over protective and some are even called heretics.
	In general the scientist should have a moral responsibility to act like a normal human being but should not be blamed for any misuse of thier final invention if they don't recieve any credit for it. However if the scientist does get copyright and he then sells it to the highest binder he must also think about the greater good. For instant a vegetable oil plant will produce a lot of cheap fuel which can then he used in combustion engines which will cut down on toxic gases which are given out. He should not sell it to the oil companies even if they were the highest bider as they would probably hide it as it would do them out of business. He should also not just sit there will this discovery in case he be deemed a heretic. Unfortunately this sometimes happens and the scientist here is in the wrong and has to live with his conscious.

<ICLE-ALEV-0028.8>
	In the age of Da Vinci, very little was known in the World of Science. This renaisance period was an opportunity for Da Vinci and others to begin to understand the makings of the World around them, in a more logical and ordered way. In a way Da Vinci is a bad example, as he was not a scientist like you might find today, he was driven by many different things, art, mechanics etc. The difference was that in Da Vinci's day and in Faradays' the was so much unknown that any slight discovery would warrant investigation and the formulation of some rule or other.
	Modern Scientists have much more information, and a greater technology to work that information into better use. Also there are far more scientists who can do this aswell. Therefore it is far more benefical to conduct an indepth study of a single subject and find out all there is to know, than follow a brief interest into anything and everything. Because far more has been discovered since Da Vinci and Faraday there is less need to take everything as unknown and new. Scientists today are more concerned with advancing their knowledge, and I consider this a good thing, because how else would technology be updated. However this is not to say that I feel Scientists don't have or shouldn't have a certain curiosity about the unknown, or work is a wider field, but the fact that there are far more men discovering far less to uncover, suggests that some specialisation is the next logical step.
	As far as schools and colleges are concerned I think it is very important to study as wide a field as is possible, because concentrating soley on one science closes so many other doors of discovery. Not to mention the fact that the sciences aid each other in understanding more easily and predicting the outcome.
	For this reason I think combined courses are a very good thing. Not only do they create more of interest in science, in a more rounded sense, but also lay a firmer foundation for specialising at a later date.
	A combined course such as Biology and Chemistry opens doors to the likes of Biochemistry, genetic engineering and other professions which rely on a more informed background of science. Studying physics and mathematics helps towards mechanical engineering. You can see the benifits.
	There is a lot to be said for specialisation, and for scientists to persue a greater knowledge in some chosen field, but schools need to offer a far wider range in order for the skills and ideas to be developed before embarking on a more <?honed?> project in Science.
	Faraday and Da Vinci are more the example to be setting in schools and less so in industry and science today, if we want science and technology to preceed.

<ICLE-ALEV-0029.8>

'in vitro fertilization is the process in which an ovum or 'egg' is taken from a donor and then fertilized with sperm outside of the uterus. The babies produced are often refered to as a 'test tube baby' because they were concieved in a testtube and not in a uterus.
There are two ways in which the process can be performed. The first case is if the ovum comes from the 'mother to be', this is usually because her partner has a low sperm count or is infertile; if he is infertile a donor's sperm will be used instead. The second case is when the 'mother to be' is post-menopausal or infertile, it is then that a donor's ovum would be used. It is possible that IVF would be used in a case where both these scenarios are combined ie both partners are infertile, although I suspect this may be considered unethical and full of problems.
	This process is full of ethical questions and the rights of all parties, the parents', the donor's and the child's, must be thought out before hand.
Firstly the rights of the parents; there are two opinions 1) that people should have the right to have children if they want to and if it is possible to give them that chance, they should have it. 2) that doctors of the medical profession should not have the right to play God. Problems may arise if the women was post-menopausal. Should she really be allowed to have children when her body has told ner no? There is also the fact that the parents may later in life, when the child is still young, be unable, physically or mentally look after the child due to old age. Regulations in cases such as this are <?> after all couples with this treatment are being given the chance of child they wouldn't normally have. If they were adopting, it would be out of the question due to their age. An age limit should be set and adhered to, family history should also be looked into the regulations should be as stringent as those for adoption. Sex selection is another issue that affects the rights of the parents. The major query is, do parents have the right to choose the sex of their child? The main worry is that the choice of sex will lead to other specifications which result in parents being able to choose the 'perfect child' and natural variation going out of the window. The regulation on this should be, that sex is not allowed to be selected, unless it prevents the continuation of a sex linked genetic disease such as haemophilia; in which the males are mainly affected, females carry the disease but are usually unaffected.
	Secondly the rights of the donor's should be considered. The regulations regarding donors must protect their privacy if they wish. Unlike adoption: where the natural mother can be found if the child wishes to, a donor should have anonamity if he or she regrests it.
	Thirdly the rights of the child should be discussed as they are often forgotten, yet just as important. Due to the fact that the child cannot speak or think before IVF is performed, regulations should be implace to safeguard the unborn child. The case of IVF being performed as a post-menopausal women affects the child as well. It is unfair on the child if his/her parents cannot partake fully in his/her life due to their age. The child may grow up to be resentful and even embarassed by the situation. Although people may argue that if the family situation is loving enough it will not matter, it will! A child can be deeply affected by their upbringing and it can reflect on their life later on. Therefore the regulation concerning an age limit protects the child in the long term. The age limit can however work at both ends of the scale ie there should be an age limit for a minimum age. As very young parents may find themselves unable to cope fully with bringing up a baby.
	In conclusion IVF is a wonderful gift to a lot of couples who are unable, for 1 reason or another, to have children. There are pitfalls as there are with other treatments and theses should always be explained carefully and clearly to prospective parents. But as with all treatments it should be used correctly and should be guarded by specific regulations and guidelines to allow the full protection of all parties involved.

<ICLE-ALEV-0030.8>
	In vitro fertilisation is the fertilisation of the egg outside of the womb and then the implantation of the developing foetus into it. The egg can be that of the mother, in the case of blocked fallopian tubes or post-fertility treatment, but is often donated or even taken from an aborted foetus. It is often the only way that people can have children if they are infertile and the moral dilemmas it causes are contentious issues.
	In Vitro fertilisation has given women sho are unable to have children this opportunity. Being declared infertile used to prevent all hope of this and the advance in technology has made many people very happy. It is the whole purpose of our species, in some peoples' view, to reproduce and this discovery has given this opportunity to many more women. However, in respons to this, many people see it as going against nature. This is not natural for fertilisation to take place outside the womb and, in some peoples' views, the whole idea goes against God and nature. In fact, they believe that in vitro treatment is "playing God" I believe that women who use their own egg for having a teststube baby have every right to do so. Those who have someone elses - with consent do <?>
	Another problem with having a test tube baby could arise from the egg donation. if an egg is donated by a friend, the donater could want rights over a child whom they may see as their own. A child who was a test tube baby may grow up with identicty problems due to this. A particularly bad example of this relates to eggs taken from aborted foetus. A child growing up with the knowledge of having come from an aborted foetus - something which has never technically been alive could be left with psychological problems. This should be <?>
	This treatment is costly. On the NHS, <?in?> treatment costs could be used to fund more life-saving treatments rather than to bring more children into an overpopulated world. There are many children who are unwanted and who need adopting. Stricter guidelines on in vitro fertilisation and an easing of the adoption process could help a lot of unwanted children. The guide lines should not be so strick as to make in vitro fertilisation impossible for couples - just harder and to make people think more on the option of adoption.
	Choice should be ensured. Every woman of pre menopausal age should be entitled to in vitro treatment if, after screening, they appear suitable and ready have a child. In the situation of post-menopausal women, the matter is different. There is, of course, the problem of age. Is it fair for a child to have old parents who run the risk of dying before that child is grown up. Equally, should resources be used thus? I think that post-menopausal women should also be entitled to apply for in vitro treatment but that they should undergo rigorous tests to see if they would be <?appropriate?> parents - as with pre-menopausal women. They should perhaps, also pay for their own treatment if they simply didn't have children when they could rather than a matter of infertility. Despite this more <?> legislation, I feel that all women, deemed suitable via guidelines, of having children should be allowed <?> so and it is their right to have children if it is possible to stop their infertility.
	In conclusion, I feel that this matter is not clear out. In the case of unborn foetus' being used as donor for eggs, I feel, this should be outlawed. There was, could be, no consent on the part of the foetus. Women should have the right to choose to have children if they are deemed suitable by certain tests. If they are to use someone else's egg, that person should be consenting and fully aware of the moral consequences. Despite this, I feel that adoption should be made easier in order to <?> and provide homes for children who are already in existence but are unwanted. Post-menopausal women should also have to go through the legal system - only I would prefer rigorous tests in order to see if they would be suitable as greater age would make them somewhat less suitable. Despite this not being "natural" I believe it is a human right. Older women could pay for their own treatment or contribute towards it as they may have "missed out" on having children due to previous choice rather than through infertility.

